README.markdown, before:

# mobtown

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/gilday/mobtown.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/gilday/mobtown)

Example full-stack web app built to demonstrate a curated set of technologies.
Mobtown explores Baltimore's public data sets for [Special Event
Permits](https://data.baltimorecity.gov/Public-Works/Special-Event-Permits/cdz5-3y2u/data)
and
[Arrests](https://data.baltimorecity.gov/Public-Safety/BPD-Arrests/3i3v-ibrt)
with the following technologies:

* AngularJS 1.6 with ui-router for structure on the front-end
* webpack for assembling the front-end single page app
* Babel for transpiling ES2015
* Bulma for styles and flexbox based layouts
* Jersey for a backend REST API
* HK2 for leightweight dependency injection
* Jackson for JSON marshalling in Java
* Hibernate for building a Java domain model of a MySQL database
* RxJava for observing API responses and database result sets as streams of
  events


## Getting Started (with docker)

Running mobtown with docker is the easiest way to get started because
it minimizes the number of dependencies you need to install and docker-compose
integrates all the mobtown services to work together for you.

1. install Java 8, docker, and docker-compose. The build assumes that your user
   has access to the default docker socket running on localhost
2. use the [Google API Console](https://console.developers.google.com/apis/dashboard)
   to generate a Google Maps JavaScript API key and set environment variable
   `MOBTOWN_GMAPS_API_KEY` to its value
3. `./gradlew build dockerBuildImage` to run all tests and build artifacts
   including docker images
4. `docker-compose up -d` to run all the mobtown docker images and their
   dependencies
5. browse to http://localhost:8000. Note: it may take some time for the ingest
   process to finish and the web server to start up. you can check the logs for
   those services using `docker-compose logs services` and `docker-compose logs
   ingest`


## Getting Started (no docker)

No docker? You can still run mobtown by running a few services and configuring
them to communicate with each other.

1. install Java 8
2. use the [Google API Console](https://console.developers.google.com/apis/dashboard)
   to generate a Google Maps JavaScript API key and set environment variable
   `MOBTOWN_GMAPS_API_KEY` to its value
3. run a MySQL service and create a database named "mobtown"
4. execute `./gradlew build assemble` to run all tests and build artifacts
5. unzip the archive in the `./mobtown-ingest/build/distributions` directory and
   execute the resulting `mobtown-ingest` script. Use `mobtown-ingest --help` to
   see database connection parameters. The ingest application will populate the
   "mobtown" MySQL database with data queried from openbaltimore.org
6. unzip the archive in the `./mobtown-services/build/distributions` directory
   and execute the resulting `mobtown-services` script. Use `mobtown-services
   --help` to see database connection parameters (same as `mobtown-ingest`).
   This app runs the mobtown HTTP API
7. execute `./gradlew mobtown-web:run` to start a development web server to serve the
   front-end. The development web server includes a reverse proxy for proxying
8. browse to http://localhost:8000/


## Why is it called "mobtown"?

"Mobtown" is a [historical nickname for Baltimore, MD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_city_nicknames_in_Maryland).
This example web app explores Baltimore's [Special Events Permits](https://data.baltimorecity.gov/Public-Works/Special-Event-Permits/cdz5-3y2u/data)
public data set. One might playfully refer to a rowdy festival in Baltimore as a
"mob"

Commit message:

:sparkles: adding Vagrantfile for increased portability while hacking on mobtown

README.markdown, after:

# mobtown

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/gilday/mobtown.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/gilday/mobtown)

Example full-stack web app built to demonstrate a curated set of technologies.
Mobtown explores Baltimore's public data sets for [Special Event
Permits](https://data.baltimorecity.gov/Public-Works/Special-Event-Permits/cdz5-3y2u/data)
and
[Arrests](https://data.baltimorecity.gov/Public-Safety/BPD-Arrests/3i3v-ibrt)
with the following technologies:

* AngularJS 1.6 with ui-router for structure on the front-end
* webpack for assembling the front-end single page app
* Babel for transpiling ES2015
* Bulma for styles and flexbox based layouts
* Jersey for a backend REST API
* HK2 for leightweight dependency injection
* Jackson for JSON marshalling in Java
* Hibernate for building a Java domain model of a MySQL database
* RxJava for observing API responses and database result sets as streams of
  events


## Getting Start (with Vagrant)

The Vagrantfile defines an Ubuntu Xenial Xerus (16.04) vagrant box running on
VirtualBox for hacking on mobtown. The ubuntu box installs Java 8,
docker-engine, and docker-compose so you can hack on and build mobtown without
mucking with your development environment. Vagrant will [use rsync to
share](https://www.vagrantup.com/docs/synced-folders/rsync.html) the
mobtown project directory with the VirtualBox VM in `/vagrant`. The mobtown
Vagrantfile uses rsync instead of the default VirtualBox shared directory due to
problems with using npm in a VirtualBox share; since Vagrant uses an rsync
share, any edits made in the Vagrant machine will not be automatically synced to
the host.  Vagrant will forward your host's port 9000 to the VirtualBox VM so
you can still test the app at http://localhost:9000

1. Install Vagrant, VirtualBox, and rsync
2. `vagrant up` to instantiate the box
3. `vagrant ssh` to connect to the box
3. Once connected to the vagrant box, `cd /vagrant` to access the project files
4. Follow "Getting Started (with docker)" starting with step (2)


## Getting Started (with docker)

Running mobtown with docker is the easiest way to get started because
it minimizes the number of dependencies you need to install and docker-compose
integrates all the mobtown services to work together for you.

1. install Java 8, docker, and docker-compose. Make sure the docker service is
   running. The build assumes that your user has access to the default docker
   socket running on localhost
2. use the [Google API Console](https://console.developers.google.com/apis/dashboard)
   to generate a Google Maps JavaScript API key and set environment variable
   `MOBTOWN_GMAPS_API_KEY` to its value
3. `./gradlew build dockerBuildImage` to run all tests and build artifacts
   including docker images
4. `docker-compose up -d` to run all the mobtown docker images and their
   dependencies
5. browse to http://localhost:8000. Note: it may take some time for the ingest
   process to finish and the web server to start up. you can check the logs for
   those services using `docker-compose logs services` and `docker-compose logs
   ingest`


## Getting Started (without docker)

No docker? You can still run mobtown by running a few services and configuring
them to communicate with each other.

1. install Java 8
2. use the [Google API Console](https://console.developers.google.com/apis/dashboard)
   to generate a Google Maps JavaScript API key and set environment variable
   `MOBTOWN_GMAPS_API_KEY` to its value
3. run a MySQL service and create a database named "mobtown"
4. execute `./gradlew build assemble` to run all tests and build artifacts
5. unzip the archive in the `./mobtown-ingest/build/distributions` directory and
   execute the resulting `mobtown-ingest` script. Use `mobtown-ingest --help` to
   see database connection parameters. The ingest application will populate the
   "mobtown" MySQL database with data queried from openbaltimore.org
6. unzip the archive in the `./mobtown-services/build/distributions` directory
   and execute the resulting `mobtown-services` script. Use `mobtown-services
   --help` to see database connection parameters (same as `mobtown-ingest`).
   This app runs the mobtown HTTP API
7. execute `./gradlew mobtown-web:run` to start a development web server to serve the
   front-end. The development web server includes a reverse proxy for proxying
8. browse to http://localhost:8000/


## Why is it called "mobtown"?

"Mobtown" is a [historical nickname for Baltimore, MD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_city_nicknames_in_Maryland).
This example web app explores Baltimore's [Special Events Permits](https://data.baltimorecity.gov/Public-Works/Special-Event-Permits/cdz5-3y2u/data)
public data set. One might playfully refer to a rowdy festival in Baltimore as a
"mob"
